# OpenFF ESP Fragment Conformers v1.0

### Description

A dataset that contains a diverse set of fragments generated from the [Enamine 10K and 50K diversity libraries](https://enamine.net/compound-libraries/diversity-libraries),
the curated [ZINC and ChEMBL (eps=78) molecules provided by Riniker and Bleiziffer](https://www.research-collection.ethz.ch/handle/20.500.11850/230799) 
and the `OpenFF Industry Benchmark Season 1 Public` molecule set.

The fragments were generated using the `Recap` decomposition scheme built in to `RDKit`

For each of the generated fragments a set of up to five conformers were generated by:

* generating a set of up to 500 conformers with an RMS cutoff of 0.5 Å using the OpenEye backend of the OpenFF 
  toolkit
* applying ELF conformer selection retaining only 5 conformers using the OpenEye backend of the OpenFF toolkit
* minimizing each conformer using psi4 and HF/6-31G* until the `GAU_LOOSE` convergence criteria have been met by 
  `geometric`.

The expectation is that the electrostatic potential and electric field can be computed using the wavefunction stored in
this dataset and using which new charge models can be trained.

See the [`gnn-charge-models`](https://github.com/SimonBoothroyd/gnn-charge-models/tree/ee02a4426eb14c48bfb30c9894af267510efcac0/data-set-curation) 
repository, and particularly the `data-set-curation` directory for further details.

### General Information

 - Date: 2022.01.16
 - Class: OpenFF Basic Dataset
 - Purpose: ESP / electric field generation.
 - Collection: BasicDataset
 - Name: OpenFF ESP Fragment Conformers v1.0
 - Number of unique molecules: 49599
 - Number of records: 63787
 - Submitter: Simon Boothroyd
 
### QCSubmit generation pipeline

 - `generate.py`: A script which shows how the dataset was prepared from the input files. 
 
### QCSubmit Manifest

- `generate.py`: The script used to prepare the dataset.
- `dataset.json.xz`: The basic dataset ready for submission.
- `dataset.pdf`: A pdf file containing molecule 2D structures.
- `dataset.smi`: SMILES for every molecule in the submission.
 