## Description

This is the full protein peptide fragment dataset consisting of constrained optimizations on various protein peptide fragments prepared by David Cerutti.
We have 12 central residues which are capped with a combination of different terminal residues which are a random selection of  ALA, GLY, SER, or VAL to the N- or C-terminus, and the customary ACE and NME blocking groups outside of that.
The optimization starting conformations were generated by David to scan the phi and psi torsions of the central residues, constraints are then added to the torsions to control the structures we sample to avoid hydrogen bonds where possible. This is an alternative approach to using torsiondrives.

Note, each folder contains molecules saved via mol2 directly from mdgx in each confirmation however the bond order is incorrect, we let openeye interpret it by re-saving to PDB first before creating the dataset.

## General Information

 - Date: 2020.08.12
 - Class: OpenFF constrained optimization 
 - Purpose: Optimizations
 - Collection: OptimizationDataset
 - Name: OpenFF Protein Peptide Fragments constrained v1.0
 - Number of unique molecules: 185
 - Submitter: Josh Horton
 
## Changelog

Here any information regarding dataset changes are recorded.

### v1.0

This is an update from the older The dataset named "OpenFF Protein Fragments v2.1". The dataset was renamed, and re-examined to ensure constraints were accurate.
 - Date: 2020.10.06
 - Name: OpenFF Protein Peptide Fragments constrained v1.0
 - Number of unique molecules: 185
 - Submitter: JTHorton
 


## QCSubmit generation pipeline

 - `Qcsubmit protein prep.ipynb`: This notebook shows how the optimization dataset was prepared from the input files and constraint files. 
 
## QCSubmit Manifest

- `Qcsubmit protein prep.ipynb`: Dataset creation notebook with instructions for submission.
- `dataset.json.xz`: The compressed constrained optimization dataset ready for submission.
- `fragments.smi`: The smiles file of the peptide molecules.
- `protein_dataset.pdf`: A pdf file containing molecule 2D structures.
- `Input_files.tar.gz`: Folders containing the input molecule conformations and the corresponding dihedral restraints.
 
## Metadata

- elements {'C', 'H', 'N', 'O', 'S'}
- unique molecules 185
- optimizations 6716
- scf properties:
    - dipole
    - quadrupole
    - wiberg_lowdin_indices
    - mayer_indices
- qc spec
    - name: default
    - method: B3LYP-D3BJ
    - basis: DZVP
    
